README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/custom_icon.svg" width="128" height="128" alt="IA Local Bridge Icon" style="border-radius: 24px" />
  <h1>IA Local Bridge</h1>
  <p>
    A simple desktop AI client built with Electron and React. Connect to your favorite AI models whether cloud-based or running locally, in a beautiful, minimalist interface.
  </p>
</div>

![IA Local Bridge Screenshot](./imgs/screenshot.png)

## Features

- **Multi-Provider Support**: Seamlessly switch between:
  - **OpenAI**: Access GPT-4, GPT-3.5, etc.
  - **OpenRouter**: Access Claude, Llama 3, Mistral, and more.
  - **Google Gemini**: Access Gemini 1.5 Pro/Flash.
  - **DeepSeek**: Access DeepSeek Coder and Chat models.
  - **Qwen**: Access Alibaba's Qwen models via DashScope.
  - **Local AI**: Connect to Ollama, LM Studio, or LocalAI running on your machine.
- **Privacy First**: Your API keys and chat history are stored **locally** on your device using `localStorage`. No data is sent to our servers.
- **Rich Chat Experience**:
  - Full Markdown support with **Syntax Highlighting** for code blocks.
  - GitHub Flavored Markdown (tables, task lists, strikethrough).
  - Streaming responses for real-time interaction.
- **Media & Attachments**:
  - **File Uploads**: Analyze documents and images (with compatible models).
  - **Screenshots**: Capture and attach screenshots directly within the app.
  - **Audio Recording**: Record voice notes or prompts.
- **Chat Management**:
  - Organize conversations with a history sidebar.
  - **Archive** old chats to keep your workspace clean.
  - **Export** chats to Markdown (`.md`), Text (`.txt`), or JSON.
  - **Bulk Export** all your data for backup.

## Tech Stack

- **Electron**: For cross-platform desktop integration.
- **React**: For a dynamic and responsive UI.
- **Vite**: For lightning-fast development and building.
- **Tailwind CSS**: For modern, minimalist styling.
- **Zustand**: For simple and effective state management.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/marciobbj/ia-local-bridge.git
    cd ia-local-bridge
    ```

2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Development

Run the app in development mode (with hot-reload):

```bash
npm run dev
```

> **Note**: This launches both the React dev server and the Electron main process.

### Build

Create a production-ready executable for your OS:

```bash
npm run build
```

The output will be in the `dist` directory.

## Configuration

1.  Click the **Settings** icon in the sidebar.
2.  Choose your **Provider** (OpenRouter, OpenAI, Gemini, DeepSeek, Qwen, or Local).
3.  Enter your **API Key** (stored locally).
4.  Set the **Model ID** (e.g., `gemini-1.5-pro`, `deepseek-chat`, `qwen-turbo`).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: Update build instructions to use platform-specific distribution commands and clarify output directory.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/custom_icon.svg" width="128" height="128" alt="IA Local Bridge Icon" style="border-radius: 24px" />
  <h1>IA Local Bridge</h1>
  <p>
    A simple desktop AI client built with Electron and React. Connect to your favorite AI models whether cloud-based or running locally, in a beautiful, minimalist interface.
  </p>
</div>

![IA Local Bridge Screenshot](./imgs/screenshot.png)

## Features

- **Multi-Provider Support**: Seamlessly switch between:
  - **OpenAI**: Access GPT-4, GPT-3.5, etc.
  - **OpenRouter**: Access Claude, Llama 3, Mistral, and more.
  - **Google Gemini**: Access Gemini 1.5 Pro/Flash.
  - **DeepSeek**: Access DeepSeek Coder and Chat models.
  - **Qwen**: Access Alibaba's Qwen models via DashScope.
  - **Local AI**: Connect to Ollama, LM Studio, or LocalAI running on your machine.
- **Privacy First**: Your API keys and chat history are stored **locally** on your device using `localStorage`. No data is sent to our servers.
- **Rich Chat Experience**:
  - Full Markdown support with **Syntax Highlighting** for code blocks.
  - GitHub Flavored Markdown (tables, task lists, strikethrough).
  - Streaming responses for real-time interaction.
- **Media & Attachments**:
  - **File Uploads**: Analyze documents and images (with compatible models).
  - **Screenshots**: Capture and attach screenshots directly within the app.
  - **Audio Recording**: Record voice notes or prompts.
- **Chat Management**:
  - Organize conversations with a history sidebar.
  - **Archive** old chats to keep your workspace clean.
  - **Export** chats to Markdown (`.md`), Text (`.txt`), or JSON.
  - **Bulk Export** all your data for backup.

## Tech Stack

- **Electron**: For cross-platform desktop integration.
- **React**: For a dynamic and responsive UI.
- **Vite**: For lightning-fast development and building.
- **Tailwind CSS**: For modern, minimalist styling.
- **Zustand**: For simple and effective state management.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/marciobbj/ia-local-bridge.git
    cd ia-local-bridge
    ```

2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Development

Run the app in development mode (with hot-reload):

```bash
npm run dev
```

> **Note**: This launches both the React dev server and the Electron main process.

### Build

Create a production-ready executable for your OS. The output will be in the `release` directory.

#### macOS (DMG)
```bash
npm run dist:mac
```

#### Windows (NSIS Installer)
```bash
npm run dist:win
```
> **Note**: Building for Windows on macOS/Linux requires **Wine** to be installed.

#### Linux (AppImage)
```bash
npm run dist:linux
```

#### All Platforms
```bash
npm run dist
```

## Configuration

1.  Click the **Settings** icon in the sidebar.
2.  Choose your **Provider** (OpenRouter, OpenAI, Gemini, DeepSeek, Qwen, or Local).
3.  Enter your **API Key** (stored locally).
4.  Set the **Model ID** (e.g., `gemini-1.5-pro`, `deepseek-chat`, `qwen-turbo`).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
